Lilliana Robinson: Our time with you. Okay, guys, so people will still trickle in. But we're just gonna get started so we can use all the time with Susan that we have
Lilliana Robinson: the background on Susan. Susan's a long time mentor for us in Texas, Chicago, and then, when we came out to the bay. We didn't bring every single workshop from Chicago, but in our second time running things out here last spring a lot of the founders were struggling with messaging.
Lilliana Robinson: and you'll see exactly what that means if that's kind of a vague term to you. But a lot of them had a lot of questions. So I ended up we reached out to Susan, and she did a workshop, probably a little bit later than what we're doing right now.
Lilliana Robinson: Toward the end of program, and it helped them so much. And the founders told me like this should have been earlier like this should have been in growth month. So here we are. So by popular demand. Susan is back, which is awesome. And Susan is just, I would say, has spent her career in marketing. This is like what you've done. So expert on this
Lilliana Robinson: subject. And this is to help you guys. During all of this growth and iteration phase. She's already studied your companies in the lookbook. And she said, she added, a few things based on what she saw. From your materials
Lilliana Robinson: for this presentation. You guys can raise your hand or just unmute and you can ask questions throughout, and then we'll also leave time for QA. At the end. I know we gave you a few things to think about as pre work for this. So some of you might already have questions. So yeah, questions are super welcome.
Lilliana Robinson: and then I'll watch in the chat. But it's better to just unmute or raise your hand if you have questions.
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's it, so I'll pass it to you, Susan.
Susan Silver: Awesome. Thanks, lilliana, so Hi, everybody! I'm like thrilled to see all of you here. This is one of my favorite topics, as lilliana said. I've spent a lot of time in marketing a little snapshot about my background. I moved to Chicago to go to Kellogg for business school because I knew I wanted to be a brand manager which might sound really weird to you, but I did, and I spent 10 years in brand management at Craft, and what that means is, I spent 10 years running really big P. And L's
Susan Silver: the biggest P. And Li ran was 300 million dollars. So to me. Marketing is all about.
Susan Silver: It's a tool to help you get to your business objectives. I'm not a creative. I'm not about let's make it blue and put it on Tiktok like none of that, like, I'm just way kind of like I'm from the East coast. I'm a super straight shooter, and I'm really about. How can you use marketing to help you get to your business goals? So I spent 10 years at Craft. I did a stint at equal sweetener.
Susan Silver: Aspartame is very polarizing, running North American marketing for them, and then I founded my own company. So I'm a founder. But I'm a solo practitioner. I founded my company 18 years ago, and I typically work with mid market and growth stage companies that don't have
Susan Silver: someone in a strategic marketing role. I do a lot of positioning work. And we're going to talk about that today. A lot of marketing plans. And I also often roll on to a low, level retainer and help my clients kind of, and their teams activate the marketing plans. About 60% of my clients are B 2. B,
Susan Silver: despite my background in food, I spend a lot of time in b 2 b, because b 2 b's don't have me as much as b 2 c's. Do I know a ton about b 2 CI know a ton about food, but I also know a lot about b 2 b, the examples I'm going to use today are mainly b 2 c, because
Susan Silver: it's much easier to understand because we're all consumers. So I don't have to explain to you how a Matterport system works or how uptake works. You guys eat right? So you understand, Mac, and cheese, you understand steak. And and so that helps me kind of bring it to life
Susan Silver: in a way where we can focus on the concept instead of kind of the product or service. But I do want to say, if you guys want any examples from B, 2 B from Tech, from Sas, whatever it is, ask me because I have a I mean, I've been doing this so long. I have so many examples now, and you know I try to be very deliberate about the ones I use in my presentation.
Susan Silver: but I have many, many client examples. I work with the most random assortment of businesses. I've worked with a hundred year old manufacturer of railroad safety equipment. I've worked with Matterport. If any of you are familiar with them being in the bay. They they created a camera that turns spaces into 3D spaces.
Susan Silver: the Vc backed. They actually did a spac but I've worked with just a huge variety of different kinds of Rando
Susan Silver: companies, and I'm happy to share. I love when you ask questions. I know you guys have all done jobs to be done. I'm going to give you kind of a different lens for how to look at kind of messaging, and how you talk about your company, whether it's in a marketing message, whether it's in an investor message. Okay, you guys have some different kinds of targets.
Susan Silver: And what I want to kind of take you through is how I think about
Susan Silver: getting my message across in the most kind of palatable, useful, efficient way possible.
Susan Silver: Alright. So ask me questions, love it. I'm gonna go ahead and share my screen.
Susan Silver: Now, I'm gonna do my little slideshow.
Susan Silver: Okay?
Susan Silver: Then, I'm also gonna expand the box so I can see more of you guys. Kind of let's see.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: alrighty. Okay, here we go. So
Susan Silver: messaging.
Susan Silver: This is your brain on messaging.
Susan Silver: Okay, everyone, all of us are bombarded with so many messages every day and your brain to be anthropomorphic. Your brain's job is to kind of
Susan Silver: concern. You guys probably have heard this is brain science, the brain. Every decision we make takes energy.
Susan Silver: And your brain's job is to kind of conserve energy for important decisions. It's why we're so depleted at the end of the day. And so your brain really kind of wants to make sure that if you get assaulted by a tiger on the way out of the building tonight that you have the kind of mental capacity left to kind of think left, right up the stairs, whatever it is. And so
Susan Silver: your brain is kind of like bombarded with messages, and it's pushing them away.
Susan Silver: So this is a problem, because you guys all need your messages to get through.
Susan Silver: And the best way to do that is to have a message that is clearly for the recipient. Right? So everybody's brain is going, not for me, not for me, not for me, not for me, not for me
Susan Silver: all day long. No, go away, no, go away. So you need a message that is so obviously for the target that you're trying to reach, that they go. Oh.
Susan Silver: it is for me.
Susan Silver: and they stop and they pay attention for a second.
Susan Silver: And so that's why messaging. The more generic a message, the more likely it is to just get batted away. Okay, so you need a very specific message that makes someone stop and say, Oh.
Susan Silver: is for me.
Susan Silver: I guess I should pay attention.
Susan Silver: One of the
Susan Silver: best examples I can think of to kind of bring your brain's messaging response to life is when you think about a pile of resumes. Have you guys all ever looked through a pile of resumes, whether it's electronically or in person. No, I see a no. Do I see any? Yeses? I see some yeses cool. So
Susan Silver: for those of you that have had to sort through a bunch of resumes to find candidates.
Susan Silver: Aside from finding great candidates. What's kind of the second best thing about making your way through a pile of resumes.
Talitha & Florence: Eliminating.
Susan Silver: Yes, exactly. Thank you. Now I'm guessing you're not Florence, cause you seem to be sitting to the side.
Talitha & Florence: Oh, yeah, sorry. It's Talitha.
Susan Silver: Hi, Lisa, thank you. Yes, exactly. It's the no pile.
Susan Silver: Okay, that should frighten all of you. But that's your brain on messaging. Okay? Because if you put a resume in the no pile.
Susan Silver: what does it mean? Is you never have to deal with it again. It's gone. It's dead to you right, it's gone. And and if you put a resume in the Yes pile, it means that you're signing up to do a bunch more work right like. Okay. Now you got to do the interviews you got to bring them in. There's so much more work related to a yes resume than a no resume.
Susan Silver: That's your brain on messaging your brain really wants to put or or I'll say, your targets. Brain really wants to put your message in the no pile.
Dave Scott: I gotta say that that this probably also relates to Vcs too.
Susan Silver: Wait! Wait!
Dave Scott: For them to find no.
Susan Silver: Everybody know is easy, right? No, no, takes no work, no is like Go away right like done. I haven't had to expend any energy on you or your message, or what you want to talk to me about. Go away.
Susan Silver: So the goal is to craft a message where someone realizes that you do bring something to their party. All right.
Susan Silver: So what I'm going to talk to you about today is walking in your target customer, and I'm going to kind of include potential investors in that bucket broadly for today. But it's about how to walk in their shoes, because one of the things I see, and I forgot to mention. I work with a lot of founders, even though
Susan Silver: startups and founders aren't who I generally work with as clients. I've been working with founders through techstars through 1871 in Chicago, through University of Chicago and the Booth School, and their new venture challenge for years and years and years and years and years. So I've seen like, probably this point, hundreds of pitches. And what I know about founders is sometimes it's really hard for you to kind of. Put yourself in your targets shoes.
Susan Silver: because there are so many things, especially when you get your clutches. Get them in your clutches. There's so many things you want to say to them. But what's the best way in okay? And so thinking about it from their perspective, not yours.
Susan Silver: So I'm going to talk to you about kind of the value proposition or positioning statement and what the 5 key things are that the 5 key things you have to know in order to have effective messaging.
Susan Silver: All right.
Susan Silver: So does anybody have any ideas for the 5 key things you must know, slash, define in order to have effective an effective message that actually makes someone go. Oh, maybe you are for me.
Talitha & Florence: The problem.
Susan Silver: Days.
Talitha & Florence: Do you think?
Susan Silver: Anybody.
Lilliana Robinson: You have to speak louder, Flo.
Talitha & Florence: The problem that the client is facing.
Susan Silver: I'm going to call that the unmet need they have.
Talitha & Florence: Yes.
Susan Silver: Okay, the unmet need that your customer has, and I'm going to go into each of these in a lot of depth. And by the time we're done. You're gonna like these are going to be imprinted in your brain when you close your eyes to go to sleep tonight. Anything else.
George Reed - Noetic: The job to be done.
Susan Silver: Sorry.
Susan Silver: So I want you to tell me.
George Reed - Noetic: Like, what.
Susan Silver: That means, if, in order, when you communicate to a customer, what does that mean?
Dave Scott: I want to say relevancy.
Dave Scott: how relevant the solution is.
Susan Silver: I'm gonna kind of tweak that for you and say, point of difference.
Susan Silver: Okay, so so kind of how you meet the unmet need all right. Why are you different and special?
Susan Silver: Anything else
Susan Silver: that you need to know? To be able to have a good message.
Nirat Attri: Life after the solution.
Nirat Attri: Sorry the the life after the solution, like how the how the value proposition basically improves your life afterwards.
Susan Silver: Actually.
Susan Silver: Nara, I think that's a great concept. But but no, actually, no, because think about this as the way in
Susan Silver: right? So this is not the whole conversation you're gonna have. This is the way in to use kind of the super cliche of the elevator pitch.
Susan Silver: Okay, this is how they want to know more.
Susan Silver: because you can't puke everything on them at once.
Susan Silver: So like.
Susan Silver: how do you? What can you say to them to make them want more. So first, st I'm going to suggest you need to know who your target is.
Susan Silver: Okay, who do you want to talk to? And you know I looked. I did look at kind of your one, your one sentence and some of you are kind of talking to everybody.
Susan Silver: and we'll get into that, and others have a quite specific target. So it's
Susan Silver: who is your target?
Susan Silver: What is the unmet need? They know they have.
Susan Silver: What are you? Okay? They need to know what you are.
Susan Silver: Why are you different and special, which I call point of difference? And then the reasons to believe
Susan Silver: your points of difference. Why are they true?
Susan Silver: All right? So so, yeah, I mean.
Lilliana Robinson: Someone in the chat put credibility, I would say, that's kind of like the reasons to believe or not.
Susan Silver: Yes, exactly, exactly. Credibility would come into the reasons to believe so like, why can you honestly claim this? Why can you really say it all right. So so these are the 5 things you must know, in order to have effective messaging.
Susan Silver: I put it into this formula
Susan Silver: to the target with the unmet need. Your company is the blank, competitive set that has this point of difference with these 3 reasons to believe. And if you can lay that out. You're in great shape
Susan Silver: if you can lay it out without using the word, and
Susan Silver: you're in really great shape.
Susan Silver: When I excuse me.
Susan Silver: I don't ever start here, though. Okay, when I was working with
Susan Silver: with students at Booth, at University of Chicago's Business School, I stopped giving them this form because everybody's smart, and they'd be like, oh, I know the answer, and they would just like fill in the blanks.
Susan Silver: And the thing about it is is that if you're being honest with yourself, you know right now that you have a lot of choices.
Susan Silver: for what could go in these blanks
Susan Silver: and the art form about creating great messaging, about creating a great positioning statement
Susan Silver: is to figure out what is the best combination
Susan Silver: of your most impactful
Susan Silver: items to fill in these blanks. Okay? Cause you can't like, I said, you can't dump everything on people at once. This is your way in. So when I do this work with clients, just to give you a sense for kind of how it works in my world.
Susan Silver: If it's a b 2 b client, I'll do customer interviews kind of like you've been doing for jobs to be done. I like to talk to people who actually already use the product because they can speak from experience versus hypothetically. But I typically talk to 8 customers for about an hour.
Susan Silver: And the only thing I'm looking to ascertain is kind of I I want to use their voices in the room with me and my client when we're working on positioning. So I'm kind of looking at. I'm trying to understand why they think we're different and special. What their unmet need was for buying, why, they choose my client things like that and then, once I've got those interviews, I have my clients read the transcripts, and then we get into a room for 4
Susan Silver: hours. Okay, we we talk for 4 h. Typically, I'll have about 5 people from my client in the room, and we talk for 4 h about all of our choices
Susan Silver: to make the best, most compelling positioning statement we can, because we always have a ton of choices. Even now, kind of at an earlier stage, you guys have a lot of good stuff.
Susan Silver: Okay, what's the best good stuff to put first.st
Susan Silver: Okay? So so I don't ever start with this form.
Susan Silver: But this is where we're going.
Susan Silver: I'm gonna give you a bunch of examples like I said, they're they're foodie. You guys won't be familiar with mighty vine because mighty vine is a Chicago based company.
Susan Silver: That I worked with a few years ago. Their target
Susan Silver: was midwestern women, 30 to 55 who buy fresh tomatoes once a week.
Susan Silver: What I'll tell you is, this is kind of a hack, all right, because mighty fine did not have enough money to do any kind of consumer research.
Susan Silver: But what we did know was that mighty vine, single biggest customer was whole Foods Midwest. Okay, the whole foods in the Chicago area. So what I did was I Googled?
Susan Silver: Who is the whole foods target? Okay? And I found that midwestern women 30 to 55 is kind of the bullseye for whole foods
Susan Silver: for mighty vine.
Susan Silver: Actually, that was just whole foods overall. Then I added in midwestern, because for us we were a midwestern company, and then they had to buy fresh tomatoes once a week to be relevant to us. So that's how we got to the target. It's kind of steak in the ground
Susan Silver: and and let's rock
Susan Silver: the unmet need
Susan Silver: is the reason the company was founded because wintertime tomatoes taste like crap.
Susan Silver: particularly in Chicago versus California. It might be a different story. But in Chicago wintertime tomatoes are horrible. And so the whole company was founded, based on the desire to eat a summertime tomato in winter, and one of the things I have to say. One of the things I love about working with founders and startups
Susan Silver: is that you guys are still so close to the unmet need. Right? Like you all founded your companies theoretically, because you saw a real unmet need in the marketplace, and you have identified a better, stronger, faster way
Susan Silver: to solve that unmet need.
Susan Silver: Okay, like, that's gold mine, right? Like, you know, you're so close to your unmet need as companies grow and kind of proliferate. They get far away from the initial unmet need, because they wind up offering lots of things that aren't necessarily more of a basket than a specific thing, and it and it gets harder and more complicated. But you are close enough right now that what is the unmet need you saw
Susan Silver: that led you to found the company.
Susan Silver: and because you have a way to do it better, all right. So so that's cool, because unmet need is kind of the crux of this whole thing. What is the unmet need that you solve? And why are you different and special? So for mighty vine, their competitive set
Susan Silver: their sandbox is they're a local greenhouse tomato grower.
Susan Silver: Their point of difference is that they grow delicious tomatoes year round.
Susan Silver: which in Chicago sounds like it could be complete. Bs.
Susan Silver: and to someone's point earlier. This is where the credibility comes in. The reasons to believe kind of prove why this is true. So for mighty vine, the plants, the varietals that they actually grow. They selected those for maximum flavor and not for their ability to be shipped. Which is why, you guys, unless you've been to Chicago, have never had a mighty vine tomato, because they can't ship outside of a 300 mile radius. All right.
Susan Silver: Their tomatoes are in the stores within 2 days of being fully ripened on the vine. Sounds good and kind of the feather on the cap is that well-known Chicago area chefs like Rick Bayless. Who, you guys might know, but he's he's a very well known James Beard award winning chef. He uses mighty vine tomatoes year round. You're like holy crap! That's a really good tomato, right like right there, that's that's it. That's kind of
Susan Silver: mighty vine in a nutshell, and that's whenever we were doing messaging, it would focus on these things.
Susan Silver: A, b 2 b example. And this is from A, I actually just ran into this founder. She had a nice exit. I just ran into her this week at a conference patient impact. How many of you, after going to the doctor, have received an electronic patient satisfaction survey.
Susan Silver: Raise your hands, I see nods.
Susan Silver: So believe it or not.
Susan Silver: 15 years ago that didn't exist.
Susan Silver: I know that sounds crazy. But 1520 years ago, when doctors, offices, when medical facilities want to know how they were doing, they sent out paper surveys once a year. There's this big company in Indiana.
Susan Silver: and they sent out paper surveys to patients to find out how the doctor's office or the medical facility was doing
Susan Silver: problem with that is, if somebody in that paper survey tells you your bathroom was dirty.
Susan Silver: how long ago was that? You know there's it was very kind of frozen in amber. And so the founder of patient impact
Susan Silver: decided to target outpatient healthcare organizations that wanted to know how their patients were perceived in real time. This is a real thing.
Susan Silver: Patty and her team at patient impact invented electronic patient satisfaction surveys.
Susan Silver: Okay, she had a lovely exit.
Susan Silver: So their competitive set at the time. Was
Susan Silver: there a patient satisfaction survey
Susan Silver: that helped businesses be more profitable every day
Susan Silver: because they generated actionable information daily.
Susan Silver: Okay, you got feedback daily. If someone told you the bathroom was dirty yesterday.
Susan Silver: You can get on that fast. Okay, versus versus your bathroom was dirty last year. The other thing was that the product itself quickly paid back.
Susan Silver: and they provided expert customer support to really help people navigate this completely new thing. And I will tell you one of the funniest things about working with patient impact was
Susan Silver: no surprise. Most people who go to the doctor are older. Okay, old people.
Susan Silver: And everybody said, Oh, old people don't use computers.
Susan Silver: Okay? Which is totally not true. Knowing you guys are all digital natives. But like.
Susan Silver: think about it like grandparents. Get the pictures of their grandkids. They're facetiming my mom can code. And she's 83 now. So like don't underestimate people. But it was really interesting because one of the pushbacks patient impact got early on was, old people don't use their computers. I was like, yes, they do. So all kinds of random stuff.
Susan Silver: So I make this very linear. But this is not a linear process. You move one thing, everything can move. Okay, but know that kind of walking through the process this way will help you get to a good place.
Susan Silver: It can be deceptively simple. This is, I don't recommend using whiteboards because you have to keep erasing them. I like to use flip chart, old fashioned flip chart pages because you can put them up around the room and see everything but this was power to switch, which was an early tech Stars company here in Chicago, and they only had whiteboards. So you use what you can. But this is this is our mess. While we were doing our session?
Susan Silver: So before I move into unmet need, does anybody have any questions yet?
Susan Silver: Okay, I will also tell you this is deceptively simple, and once you start to mess around with it, it's like, Oh, it seems so easy, it seems so rational! So like I mentioned before.
Susan Silver: unmet need. When I work with startups, early stage companies, I start with unmet need. When I start with. When I work with my clients. We start with target because we have a great picture of who our target is, who we've been doing business with, who we want to do business with, because we've got all that experience.
Susan Silver: But with earlier stage companies talking about kind of the unmet need that you guys identified that led you to found the business
Susan Silver: I love starting there.
Susan Silver: So unmet need is really, what problem have you identified in the market that you're able to solve? Better, stronger, faster.
Susan Silver: I think about it as from a customer standpoint. Remember, I talked about kind of putting yourself in your customer shoes.
Susan Silver: It's they wake up in the morning, and they stretch, and they say.
Susan Silver: wouldn't it be great if
Susan Silver: why isn't there a way to?
Susan Silver: I wish I could?
Susan Silver: Wouldn't it be nice if we could, where they're saying that to their coworkers. Wow!
Susan Silver: Why is this so hard like? Why couldn't this be easier, whatever it is? But that's kind of when you think about unmet need.
Susan Silver: That's kind of where your head should be. What? What is the unmet need? They know they need
Susan Silver: not. What is the unmet need you wish they had.
Susan Silver: But what's the unmet need? They know they have
Susan Silver: all right. Big difference.
Susan Silver: Wishful thinking gets you nowhere.
Susan Silver: And I'll give you a great example. This is a sprung. This is a real thing.
Susan Silver: Okay?
Susan Silver: The former. CEO of Bally's total fitness loves to run, but has bad knees. So he invented the sprawing. He hired an engineer, and they built a prototype in his garage.
Susan Silver: They didn't use any consumer feedback, no customer feedback at all.
Susan Silver: and because they didn't understand marketing.
Susan Silver: and I'm not making this up. They thought the weirder and wackier they made it
Susan Silver: the more kind of attention they would get, so they named it the spring. They originally wanted to machine it in purple.
Susan Silver: but that was too expensive. And when they reached out to me
Susan Silver: they thought they had a messaging issue
Susan Silver: because they were targeting, purchasing people at large health club chains. So so the CEO and his team knew everybody in the fitness, industry.
Susan Silver: and their goal was to kind of get these 1,000 piece orders from equinox and from Bally's and from La Fitness, right like that was their elephant that they were hunting.
Susan Silver: and they would walk into la fitness, and they'd see their old friend Bob, and it would be, you know, hug, hug, kiss, kiss have you been? How are the kids?
Susan Silver: But nobody was buying at that level. Instead, they were getting all these one Z, 2 Z orders from smaller
Susan Silver: smaller health club chains and individual health club chains, and they thought they had a messaging problem. And so we were in the positioning session, and I had their team, their senior team around the table.
Susan Silver: And I said to them.
Susan Silver: Okay, so you're targeting, purchasing people at large health club chains.
Susan Silver: What are their unmet needs.
Susan Silver: Okay, what? What? How does their boss know? They're doing a good job? What are their Kpis based on? And they said, That's easy. We've managed these people
Susan Silver: first, st their job is to replace old equipment.
Susan Silver: Second.
Susan Silver: they're they're kind of charged with keeping costs low. And finally they bring in the hot new trend.
Susan Silver: And I wrote these things up on my trusty flip chart, and they kind of got quiet.
Susan Silver: They were like, oh.
Susan Silver: we're not old equipment.
Susan Silver: We're an incremental cost.
Susan Silver: And we're not the hot new trend yet.
Susan Silver: No wonder they're not buying us.
Susan Silver: Okay, we don't meet their unmet need in any way. And part of the problem was is that at large health club chains.
Susan Silver: customer acquisition and retention has been disaggregated from purchasing.
Susan Silver: so they don't care. Purchasing. People don't care at all about whether or not something they do helps retain or bring in new customers. That's why Spring was having so much success at smaller health club chains where the owner operator was still doing the buying, because not only did they care about doing the purchasing, they cared about customer retention and customer acquisition, which is where something new and different
Susan Silver: can help.
Susan Silver: So what they realized was they needed to actually kind of change their sales strategy and stop pursuing the people they knew at the big Health club chains and really continue to go after the one Z. 2 Z. The smaller Health club chains, and I'll stop there for a second and say, it's very, very rare to have what I'll call a head smacker
Susan Silver: in a positioning session. Okay, it's it's not typical to kind of walk out of the room. Going? Oh, my gosh! I can't believe we hadn't thought of that.
Susan Silver: Generally it's the opposite problem.
Susan Silver: There are too many things you can say or do.
Susan Silver: And this is all about winnowing. This is all about thinking. How can you be most effective? And and what can you talk about that matters all right. So that's that's spring.
Susan Silver: so a lot of the time one of the problems is is that, especially with my tech clients.
Susan Silver: They want to say that the unmet need is something like this, and I wrote this down verbatim when someone in one of my positioning sessions said, oh.
Susan Silver: I know what the customer unmet need is. It's that they wish they had efficient and effective packaging systems that align with lead principles.
Susan Silver: How like? How many of you think that that's a likely thing that anyone would ever say legit in a sentence
Susan Silver: like any of you. Yeah, like, no, not not one bit. That is such wishful thinking, right? Like, it would be awesome if some people said that. But that's not how humans talk. That's how robots talk. Okay, or we want to optimize for the delivery of real time communications across the enterprise like no, not happening.
Susan Silver: or this one
Susan Silver: we want more cost, efficient printing flexibility like people. Just don't talk like that. Okay, so right there, you got a problem like, if you think that's how your people are talking. You are not in their shoes. Okay? And you really need to think about if Frank and Miranda are in a bar after work, and they're talking about
Susan Silver: like what a horrible day they had. And the problem they're trying to solve, they're not saying this.
Susan Silver: Okay, those are not the words they're using. And, in fact, actually, when I teach this as a workshop.
Susan Silver: I actually think of this, as I call this exercise beers with peers, because if you wouldn't honestly say this to a peer sitting on a bar stool with them. Then you're not being clear or realistic enough, all right. So things that people do say
Susan Silver: I want a deeper understanding of my customers. I want to communicate. I want to build community on my campus.
Susan Silver: I like being buzzed, but I hate being hung over. I want my golf swing to be more consistent. I want to live the way I want in retirement, or I'm frustrated by Amc. And fraud issues. So those are all things that people could potentially, really say. And I will say that all of these are from clients that I've worked with, except the Amc. One, which is a previous techstars. Company.
Susan Silver: Okay? But these are all things that people say you're like, and if you like, if it passes the sniff test. You know, you're on the right track.
Susan Silver: You're going to have choices like with everything you're gonna have choices. There are a lot of unmet needs that your product or service is meeting.
Susan Silver: What's the most critical one? What's the one they care the most about? All right. So I'm going to use a running example of steak.
Susan Silver: Allen Brothers, Steak, a former client of mine. They actually started supplying restaurants.
Susan Silver: and people love their stake so much that they started to do e-commerce. I'm going to use the e-commerce piece I worked on positioning and a lot of other things with with both sides of their business, but we're going to talk about the b 2 c. Side.
Susan Silver: and for Allen Brothers the unmet need is that their customers want to eat the very best steaks possible at home
Susan Silver: doesn't have to be hard. And also the random thing is is that with food
Susan Silver: there really are no unmet needs in the country, in in America. We don't really have any unmet food needs, so I'll just kind of say that. So for Allen Brothers, it was. These people want to eat the very best steaks possible, but they want to do it at home.
Susan Silver: Questions about unmet need
Susan Silver: no questions.
Susan Silver: Jobs to be done. Nothing.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: Wake up. This is.
Lilliana Robinson: Probably the one that they have down. Pat. I think this group is actually one of the strongest and jobs to be done that we've ever had.
Susan Silver: Awesome. So you all feel very confident that you've identified the unmet need, and that you have articulated it
Susan Silver: in a way that is, from your customer's point of view, and not yours.
Lilliana Robinson: Or they're on on the way to do it.
George Reed - Noetic: Getting there? Yeah.
Susan Silver: Good, awesome.
Susan Silver: glad to hear it. Okay, and we'll go to target now.
Susan Silver: So target is, who is the customer that has this unmet need.
Susan Silver: And the reason I have this slide is because I was judging an entrepreneurial contest years ago for Depaul University here in Chicago, and one of the teams said that their target consumer was females 5 to 50.
Susan Silver: Why are you guys laughing.
Kevin Su: It's no.
Talitha & Florence: Very specific at all.
Susan Silver: Sorry.
Talitha & Florence: The range is just too wide, not specific at all.
Susan Silver: Way too wide. That is not a target. That's just like, I mean, that's basically
Susan Silver: everybody with 2 X chromosomes.
Kevin Su: Yeah, it's like a quarter of the world. Basically.
Susan Silver: It. It was more than a quarter of the world. Right? It's like half the world.
Kevin Su: Right.
Susan Silver: Like our target is half the world. Okay, that is so. Not helpful. Right? You've done market sizing like that's so not helpful.
Susan Silver: although I will say that
Susan Silver: George, not to pick on you, but your target in in your one liner is kind of like everybody.
George Reed - Noetic: Yeah, I don't think. Is there even a target in the one liner at the moment?
George Reed - Noetic: I don't know if there even is.
George Reed - Noetic: I don't.
Susan Silver: Yeah, it was.
George Reed - Noetic: I think I'm trying to figure out the jobs to be done. I've narrowed in on
George Reed - Noetic: consumer insight managers.
Susan Silver: Good glad to hear it, because when I was reading what was in what's in air table, it was like, oh, it was like
Susan Silver: that need to do research. And it was like that kind of like.
George Reed - Noetic: Oh, that one. Yeah, yeah. That one.
Susan Silver: That one which is a great example of a target that's too broad organizations, enterprises that are that need to do research. It's like Whoo!
George Reed - Noetic: It's kinda.
Susan Silver: Everybody right?
Susan Silver: So I'm thrilled that you've narrowed it down.
George Reed - Noetic: Thank you.
Susan Silver: You're welcome. So so kind of you start here, and then you have to say, Who's my bullseye?
Susan Silver: Right? Even if
Susan Silver: all women would be
Susan Silver: potentially use my product.
Susan Silver: Who is the bull's eye
Susan Silver: target customer? What's the center of the bullseye
Susan Silver: when you.
Susan Silver: when you try to think about like how to be, not for me, not for me.
Susan Silver: I think that you need a picture of a customer in your head. One customer. Okay, even if it's B, 2 B, like like, who is that customer that you need to reach with your message? And you start there? It doesn't mean that you defame the people who are not your target. But it does mean that you tried to speak specifically to your bullseye.
Susan Silver: I was
Susan Silver: working with a client on positioning a few years ago.
Susan Silver: and we were in the in the meeting with all the sweet C-suite people, and when I went through this the head of sales, said, Oh, this is who are you going to chase?
Susan Silver: And I think that's a really important way to frame it for you guys.
Susan Silver: It's not.
Susan Silver: Who are you gonna welcome?
Susan Silver: It's
Susan Silver: are you going to chase?
Susan Silver: You don't have enough money, time people
Susan Silver: to chase everybody. Right, George, you can't chase every enterprise that's doing research.
Susan Silver: Nope, Nope.
Susan Silver: so
Susan Silver: you're gonna welcome, everybody. When I was
Susan Silver: right before the pandemic. Unfortunately, I was doing some biz dev with the CEO of Gibson's restaurant group.
Susan Silver: They are the largest restaurant group in the country. They're based here in Chicago, and they're a lovely family run business. They're second Gen, and they're awesome, and this is one that got away.
Susan Silver: But I was talking to those the CEO Steve Lombardo, Jr.
Susan Silver: And his dad, Steve Lombardo, Sr. Is the founder of Gibson's.
Susan Silver: and whenever Gibson's tried to do positioning work and they talked about target, they had a real problem, because Steve Senior was like, we welcome everybody.
Susan Silver: I am not going to narrow down to one target because we welcome everybody.
Susan Silver: And what I said to Steve seen to Steve, Jr. Is. But who are you going to chase
Susan Silver: right like? So Gibson's is a steak restaurant.
Susan Silver: and I can tell you that if a vegetarian sounds like a bad joke, if a vegetarian walked into Gibson's.
Susan Silver: They would have a great experience, despite the raw meat going by. They would have like they would be welcomed. People would be nice to them. There would be things on the menu they could eat.
Susan Silver: Okay, like they're gonna have a perfectly lovely evening with their friends.
Susan Silver: But I can guarantee you that Gibson's isn't gonna spend one penny
Susan Silver: trying to convince vegetarians to come to. Gibson's.
Susan Silver: Okay. And that's the difference. They're going to welcome. Everybody but Gibson's is not going to try to convince everybody to come to the restaurant. You know an example from my own business. So I typically work with companies with between 20 million 500 million in revenue. That's that's broad. But
Susan Silver: one day in year 2 of my business, I got a message on my answering machine, because it was 2,008 from somebody I knew at Procter and Gamble.
Susan Silver: and he said, Hey, Susan, this is Steve Knox.
Susan Silver: We have a problem here at Png that we think you can help us solve, and I was like me.
Susan Silver: So do you think that I called Steve back and said, Hey, Steve.
Susan Silver: I don't work with multibillion dollar companies. You're going to need to find somebody else
Susan Silver: like no way. Right? So I said, Steve, what do you need. It was something super cool. It was with their word of mouth group, because they were doing like landmark, breakthrough word of mouth research. And it was something that not only was I interested in doing. I would learn from it, and I'd be able to use what I learned with my clients.
Susan Silver: So I said, heck! Yes.
Susan Silver: but I won't do biz dev with companies like Procter and Gamble, or Kraft, where I used to work, or any big company, because that would be stupid. I'm 1 person.
Susan Silver: I don't have that kind of time. I need to be much more thoughtful and strategic about the business development that I do where I have a higher likelihood of success.
Susan Silver: Okay, but if someone from Png or Hallmark or Morningstar calls me like they have.
Susan Silver: and it's something that I want to do. Heck. Yes.
Susan Silver: but I don't do biz dev against them, and that's the difference. It's who are you going to chase?
Susan Silver: Okay, not who do you welcome, Png. Welcome, welcome! Give me your money. But it's it's it's who are you going to kind of chase. And how do you do that all right. So that's
Susan Silver: that's kind of the single most important thing I want you guys to keep in mind because it's really hard to do specific targeting because
Susan Silver: you're leaving money on the table, or you feel like you're leaving money on the table. But the problem is like I mentioned at the very beginning. If you're targeting lots of people, then your message needs to be super broad. And what happens when your message is generic?
Susan Silver: Not for me.
Susan Silver: Right? So it doesn't actually help you.
Susan Silver: It doesn't help you in terms of doing the marketing and biz dev that you need to do for your own business.
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: how many of you have multiple targets?
Susan Silver: how many of you have multiple targets, and your business is not 2 sided.
Susan Silver: two-sided marketplace like opentable?
Susan Silver: So so.
Lilliana Robinson: Some of them have. We've taught the b 2 b people like not only just marketplaces, but b 2 b in general has 2 where it's like the decision maker. And then the company, as a whole.
Susan Silver: Okay, I'm gonna like, politely disagree or let me reframe it.
Lilliana Robinson: Please. Yeah.
Susan Silver: in A, b 2 b company.
Susan Silver: There's no question that there are influencers.
Susan Silver: No question. Okay? So where I start when it comes to positioning what
Susan Silver: not? It's like, I have a slide, but it's not yet. It's it's who signs the check.
Susan Silver: Okay? So who is it that has to say yes, for the money to be released.
Susan Silver: and I'm not talking like somebody in accounts payable.
Susan Silver: What I'm talking about is like who in the organizational structure
Susan Silver: has to say yes
Susan Silver: and start there with your messaging. Okay.
Susan Silver: B, 2. B gets a little trickier because there are influencers.
Susan Silver: and they may may need a slightly different message. But your keystone message needs to be about how you help the organization
Susan Silver: through the lens of that person who has to say yes or no.
Susan Silver: okay, so I would. Still, I would not consider that 2 targets for me. I would consider 2 targets if you were going after B, 2 B+B to C,
Susan Silver: okay? Or if so, for example, open table, you've got to attract restaurants, and you need to attract consumers.
Susan Silver: That's 2 targets. If you're talking about kind of one kind of organization.
Susan Silver: and there's like a specific way in. But there are going to be different people who kind of like lob in their opinion or whatever that to me is different.
Susan Silver: All right, like you're being as focused as you can be.
Susan Silver: And the reason I kind of
Susan Silver: yes, Florence and Lisa.
Fabio Caironi: Oh, no, yeah. Just
Fabio Caironi: bringing up an example for like my company.
Fabio Caironi: So what if you are providing a good that that is considered like utility. Like, suppose like you're doing, you know, networking or electricity. In our case, we're doing computing. So it adapts to multiple targets in the sense that they they run different sorts of applications, or maybe in healthcare or
Fabio Caironi: or
Fabio Caironi: in AI but the the
Fabio Caironi: the kind of type of customer you're looking for in a persona is still the same. So it's a CTO at a startup who has compute like high computing needs.
Fabio Caironi: Is that considered like different targets. I just wanted to bring this up.
Susan Silver: I think what you need to do, Fabio is. Think about
Susan Silver: of all the different needs you can meet. What is the most compelling for the organization.
Susan Silver: right? Because there's a lot of like
Susan Silver: stuff. There's a lot of what I'll call gravy.
Susan Silver: But when you think about the organizations and the problem that you're solving for them.
Susan Silver: What's the what's the biggest, most relevant nut that they care about
Susan Silver: and start there?
Susan Silver: Does that help.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I I just feel like, it is, it can be overlapped to multiple
Fabio Caironi: verticals. So I feel like that. The target. Keyword here relates more to the you said the the need that
Fabio Caironi: to get solved rather than maybe the specific vertical in our case it's like getting them like, faster and more intuitive computing. And and this is like what we have
Fabio Caironi: got him from the jobs to be done. Interviews. So
Fabio Caironi: yeah, that definitely focus on poses, our focus on a specific target.
Susan Silver: Yeah, well, and and you know you may go across many verticals.
Susan Silver: I do also, right? Like my process is agnostic. I don't. I got. You know I can work with a sausage company I can work with with a you know AI company like it doesn't matter. The process is the same. So in my case, from a targeting standpoint, it's much more about size and resources. Do they have a Vp of marketing? Do they have a director of marketing, you know. Have they done any marketing strategy? And that's more important
Susan Silver: than what kind of company they are.
Susan Silver: And so I'm going to show you I have a worksheet. So it's really thinking about
Susan Silver: who? How do you identify
Susan Silver: the companies? The people who are most likely excuse me, most likely to be most interested in what you're offering.
Susan Silver: Talitha and Florence. And then Kevin.
Talitha & Florence: You just answered our question. We.
Susan Silver: Okay. Great.
Talitha & Florence: Fabio, so it's perfect. Thank you.
Susan Silver: Well, the other thing is, you know, Fabio, you mentioned kind of
Susan Silver: doing ads right? And kind of testing things from a kind of paper click, online standpoint. And that's a great way to kind of take different hypotheses and narrow down. But you're still going to want to narrow down because you don't have all the money in the world to spend against everybody.
Susan Silver: So what's the place where you're going to play where you have the most likelihood of success.
Susan Silver: Kevin, you had a question.
Kevin Su: Yeah, hey? How's it going, Susan? Really appreciate this talk? I'm the co-founder of tutor me. We're building a virtual classroom.
Susan Silver: Oh!
Kevin Su: Currently focus on international baccalaureates.
Susan Silver: To be people. Yep.
Kevin Su: Iv people, yeah, exactly. So we're currently running a freemium model. I think my question to you is
Kevin Su: just to get your thoughts on
Kevin Su: the targeting between free users and getting them across to the paid user threshold is that like is for the free user side, is it just? We obviously have found our user. But we just need to build a better product to make them pay. Or would you say we're pretty far away from actually finding our
Kevin Su: paying user. And they're 2 separate target bullseyes, as you would put it.
Susan Silver: So, Kevin, I will give you my unsolicited opinion, which, as a founder, you get all the time.
Kevin Su: Play, pleasing.
Susan Silver: Right. I believe that. If your product sells a real unmet need, people will pay for it.
Susan Silver: Hmm!
Susan Silver: I don't believe in offering anything for free?
Susan Silver: Maybe maybe a sample. But really, if your solution is so awesome, why wouldn't people be willing to pay for it? And if they're not. There's a problem.
Susan Silver: and if they are.
Susan Silver: you know, sample yes.
Susan Silver: sample to kind of demonstrate. But I I'm not. I'm a i'm a i'm not a fan of free anything. Because I really believe, if if it's a real unmet need that people care about, they're going to give you money.
Susan Silver: So that aside. That's my opinion on business model right? Who cares? I'm in marketing? But
Susan Silver: what I would want to understand is what is the very tight connection and use case and user experience for
Susan Silver: how the step up and what you're offering in the paid product
Susan Silver: is so critical to people like, how is, how is the free product, giving them a taste like partially sating their unmet need. But they really, if they really want to kind of.
Susan Silver: be satisfied and have that unmet need met, they're gonna pay for it. And and so what's the linkage and and kind of as you think about?
Susan Silver: How do they step through that
Susan Silver: cause it should be the same person right? Just a different kind of purchase points almost. But it should be the same person like like, I would hate to think
Susan Silver: that you're spending any energy to bring people in
Susan Silver: who you can't monetize
Susan Silver: right like that's like, Oh, my God, no! Stop, please like that hurts me.
Susan Silver: I want you to. I want you to chase
Susan Silver: people who you can monetize
Susan Silver: right right.
Kevin Su: No, that makes a lot of sense. Every.
Susan Silver: Okay, Narat, and then to leave him. Florence.
Nirat Attri: Yeah, like, I just want to like, follow up on Fabio's question a little bit. Because again, the idea is that the same technology can
Nirat Attri: serve multiple stakeholders. And like they use the technology for different reasons. So as a result.
Nirat Attri: you do have different verticals or personas that come out of it now.
Nirat Attri: adding to the thing that you're talking with Kevin about like, what if you get traction in all of them?
Nirat Attri: So how do you decide.
Susan Silver: God willing, I hope you do
Susan Silver: so if you get so, even if you get traction in all of them.
Susan Silver: I'm willing to bet a big amount of money that you're going to get better traction.
Susan Silver: Get a few or one like there's gonna still be a difference
Susan Silver: and great news.
Susan Silver: You've got evidence that as you grow you're going to be able to kind of extend your bullseye right? Like to me. It's like you start with the center, because that's like the like. That's that's where everything is in alignment. The moon and the stars, and everyone's happy. But
Susan Silver: in a perfect world you run out of those people right? Or everybody in that group knows you. And then you start to kind of expand out and expand out the rings.
Susan Silver: But you do it in a deliberate, strategic way. And you look at where? Where can the most success come from? The fastest? Because one of the things you guys need to do is demonstrate why you're worthy of other people's money from a fundraising standpoint.
Susan Silver: And I will tell you.
Susan Silver: I recommend that you do a positioning statement for investors. Okay, because they have a completely different unmet need than your actual customers. Right? But but think about like, how do you message to investors? And one of those things is kind of like early success.
Susan Silver: And then one of the other things is potential.
Susan Silver: And and so like, that's how I think about it. I really do think about it like concentric circles where you're, gonna you know, great example. And you'll see this in one of my examples further on. So I spent a lot of time working on craft, macaroni and cheese.
Susan Silver: and
Susan Silver: I can tell you that, like our agency, was dying for us to do college students, because many college students I don't know if they still do. But they used to live on Kraft, Mac and cheese.
Susan Silver: We had so many moms with kids between the ages of 3 and 9 that
Susan Silver: it made. No, and the more of them are coming in every year, right like you're like. It made no sense to talk to college students, because that pool of moms with kids 3 to 9 was constantly changing every year. People are aging out, people are aging in. It made no sense for us to spend our money on college kids. It didn't mean they didn't buy it. We didn't chase them.
Susan Silver: Okay, Talitha, and did that answer your question, Arat.
Susan Silver: Great.
Nirat Attri: Thanks, Led.
Susan Silver: And Florence.
Talitha & Florence: Yes, I'm curious to hear your opinion about. We've been advised by several people to kind of use the research.
Susan Silver: I need you to speak louder to me if I'm having a hellacious time here. I'm sorry.
Talitha & Florence: I'm Flo. This is Talitha. Sorry I don't.
Susan Silver: Sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: Your your mic is always kind of low flow. I don't know if you guys are just far from the computer, maybe just get really.
Talitha & Florence: Wait. Let's go closer. Okay, we go closer. So you see my teeth.
Lilliana Robinson: Or just yell.
Talitha & Florence: So we're curious to hear about your opinion about milking the research phase because we're so early. We're trying to get our 1st customers. And people have advised us to basically say, You know, we're doing research in that space. We'd love to hear how your experience is to kind of uncover the unmet need, and then use that as a way to also introduce our product and get feedback.
Talitha & Florence: So how do you think about this type of messaging in the early days. Is that something you recommend or not? Yeah.
Susan Silver: So remind me what your business is.
Talitha & Florence: Yes, so we are. We have our AI pocket concierge called Anna for short term rental management companies.
Susan Silver: Oh, for the, for the people who to answer the question, so that yep,
Susan Silver: So what are you trying to learn?
Talitha & Florence: So what what we have been advised to do is basically these customer discovery slash sales calls where we approach those management companies or those hosts
Talitha & Florence: in a way that we want to learn about how they currently communicate with their guests. And we're doing a research and.
Susan Silver: I think. Oh, that's great. Like, I'm a huge believer in research. I'm a huge believer in talking to humans.
Susan Silver: I think it being very deliberate about what you want to learn. I hate when people pretend to be doing research, but they're really trying to sell like that. I am. So not for that. Right? That's bullshit, like, yeah.
Susan Silver: if if if somebody happens to decide, they want to buy. But like be be genuine.
Susan Silver: especially because it helps. You really learn like getting those meetings is hard. And I hate to see you waste a good meeting where you can actually learn stuff
Susan Silver: because you're actually trying to figure out how to sell this person.
Susan Silver: you know.
Susan Silver: I think, approaching those like you are trying to learn. You have this idea once you're farther along. When you've learned, then you're going to be able to say we're targeting this kind of person, this kind of property manager, whatever. But I think right now, you know, if you're focusing on learning versus selling.
Susan Silver: then then do that.
Talitha & Florence: So people, like other advisors, basically recommended to us to take the approach of having a customer discovery call. But at the end.
Susan Silver: Oh, no, I think that's bullshit. No, I mean again, one opinion. You guys get lots of opinions like.
Talitha & Florence: Yeah.
Susan Silver: And so.
Talitha & Florence: Happy New Year.
Susan Silver: Like, like, basically, you're lying
Susan Silver: when you do that right like. So.
Talitha & Florence: Just to be clarified. What they advised us to do is to do a customer discovery call, but at the end show what we are actually been working on, and then see, engage what their response is.
Susan Silver: So that's so to me, that's different. Okay.
Talitha & Florence: Okay, yeah. So that's the case. What was recommended not to to say, we are doing research and then do a sales call? Not at all. Yeah, yeah.
Susan Silver: What you're doing is concept testing.
Talitha & Florence: Okay.
Susan Silver: Okay, so what you're doing is learning things totally normal, completely like normal research process. And then you're saying I'd love to show you a concept of what we've been thinking about to hear what you think. That's that's
Susan Silver: totally cool and fine. That's still research. Okay, that is still research. You're just getting more specific and saying, now that we, you know we've talked with you about this. We've been. We've been working on this thing. It's not ready to sell like, you know, we would love to get your thoughts on this concept.
Talitha & Florence: Okay.
Susan Silver: Totally totally fine and legit
Susan Silver: it's it's it's the Trojan horse people who like are like, Oh, we just want to learn from you, and then you come, come in, and you're like, let me tell you this, that to me is really like distasteful. But no, what you're talking about. Sorry for misunderstanding.
Susan Silver: Is is fine. You're just concept testing
Susan Silver: right? Good job.
Talitha & Florence: Sounds good. Thank you.
Susan Silver: You're welcome, Monica. You've been waiting patiently with that little animated hand for a long time. Yes.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Hi, Susan. So my question might be premature and maybe going into this later in the presentation. But you mentioned relevancy allows someone to actually pay attention to your message right? If it's targeted specifically to them. But does conciseness also play a role because the positioning statement, as you laid it out is pretty long. So it's like, Do you need to incorporate all elements of the positioning statement? Any type of messaging.
Susan Silver: Thank you, Monica. Yes, so perfect question. So from a how do you use the tool?
Susan Silver: So in my world? Obviously, I have lots of opinions, happy to share. Okay with being wrong in my world. Elevator pitch is
Susan Silver: what are you
Susan Silver: so competitive, set? And why are you different and special?
Susan Silver: And that's where you start.
Susan Silver: Okay, what I noticed a lot
Susan Silver: was that many of you in the initial one sentence that I saw talk about how you do things
Susan Silver: that's not
Susan Silver: doesn't belong in your elevator pitch.
Susan Silver: Okay? Because that's that's establishing why you're able to do what you're claiming to do. Elevator pitch. What are you? Why are you different and special?
Susan Silver: Then.
Susan Silver: if what I like to see is I liked, then you move into reasons to believe, and depending on who you're talking to and depending on the conversation you have. You'll go to one or the other all right. If you were doing messaging
Susan Silver: or or think about a website.
Susan Silver: Point of difference is going to be top of the fold.
Susan Silver: What do we do? Why are we great?
Susan Silver: The reasons to believe are going to be below the fold, and they're also going to be tabs, because if they're that important, you're going to have a tab for each one of those. Or if you're messaging, if you were doing kind of a conventional ad point of difference, one reason to believe.
Susan Silver: Okay, so that's kind of how I think about. No, you don't. And and you never talk about target right like like that's who you're
Susan Silver: that's who you're trying to find who you're trying to reach. But that's not in there. Unmet need isn't in there either.
Susan Silver: because theoretically, your point of difference meets the unmet need. So both of those pieces aren't your messaging at all. They're just kind of.
Susan Silver: They're the foundation for your messaging. If you were working with a creative person, or if you're hiring someone to do your marketing internally. They need to understand
Susan Silver: how you've winnowed down everything you could talk about to. Kind of what are the most important 1st things you talk about.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay, yeah, that makes sense. Because, like, if you get hit with a wall of information, even if it's relevant like, you'll probably stop reading.
Susan Silver: Yeah, it's it's funny. Actually, I worked with a company. I think they went through techstars many, many years ago. And they actually kids science lab. They they do science classes for little kids.
Susan Silver: and I'm not exaggerating at all. I once called their office and their voicemail message was 2 min long.
Susan Silver: because they were so excited to have a live one in their clutches.
Susan Silver: right? That they puked out everything about kids, science lab. And I was like guys.
Susan Silver: Somebody called you
Susan Silver: like somebody took time out of their busy day to call you.
Susan Silver: They want to talk to you. They want you to call them.
Susan Silver: Just let them leave their message
Susan Silver: right. But founders is founders like you get so excited like somebody wants to talk to us, and it's kind of like back off
Susan Silver: and think about like, okay, let them leave their message, and then then you get to talk to them. But if you have a 2 min message. Not everyone's going to hang around to leave the message.
Susan Silver: So yeah, don't. Don't dump everything on them at once.
Susan Silver: So I think you guys are loud and clear on why, having one target is best. The way I look at it through my marketing lens is that if you have one target and you have one pile of money for your budget, and you've got one stack of work.
Susan Silver: View of 2 targets.
Susan Silver: Then you have half the money for each and twice the work, because with 2 targets
Susan Silver: there are no economies of scale, they have different unmet needs. And actually, that's how you know whether you need one positioning.
Susan Silver: If if you are talking to people with different unmet needs, they're different targets.
Susan Silver: And you need a different positioning statement for each, because the point of difference that meets that unmet need is going to be different, like the compelling point of difference is going to be different.
Susan Silver: We already covered this. Who signs the check?
Susan Silver: That's where I start with B, 2 B. Okay, who signs the check?
Susan Silver: Some examples of targets, employees with invested Rsus. That was another Tech Stars Company men with health insurance who have a concerning medical skin condition, lawyers who draft and analyze contracts, owners of businesses with under a thousand employees, physical therapy companies with at least 25 locations and Dtc companies that require cold distribution channel. What does that mean for you?
Susan Silver: Basic research? I love that you guys are doing jobs to be done. How do you find out more information about your target? Just some other ideas. Customer interviews.
Susan Silver: Fabio. I'll get to you in one second, if actually no. Here, Fabio. Yes, what would you like to know?
Fabio Caironi: No, I just had a
Fabio Caironi: honey, if you have multiple targets. Sorry if you just go for one target instead of like
Fabio Caironi: differentiating and and trying to figure out which one's better. What if? What if you just like deploy or your ad spend on one target? And you just screw up
Fabio Caironi: like that's that's 1 of my fears, and that's why I would like to keep the targets open and
Fabio Caironi: and keep testing. So I just wanted to to see.
Susan Silver: I don't think there's anything wrong with testing given given where you are. No, I don't want you to blow everything at once.
Fabio Caironi: But I.
Susan Silver: Want you to place bets, and where you actually believe, based on everything. You know that you're most likely to have your success.
Fabio Caironi: Gotcha. Yeah, we would love to know your thoughts, maybe later, about like how much you allocate to to test and like how to like iterate that. But that sounds like a
Fabio Caironi: the compelling strategy.
Susan Silver: Okay, cool.
Susan Silver: Thanks. So customer interviews zip codes. If you're shipping anything from online, what are the zip codes? Where are you reaching?
Susan Silver: if you have salespeople when you have salespeople call reports are huge. Your salespeople will always know great stuff, and they're very hard to squeeze stuff out of
Susan Silver: social media. Obviously, sales calls
Susan Silver: survey data
Susan Silver: trade show observation for those of you in the b 2 b space. I'm jealous because it means your people probably congregate.
Susan Silver: So going to where they congregate is is important. You know. Target is the one piece of positioning that translates to marketing plan. Your whole marketing plan is about trying to reach these people.
Susan Silver: And if you go to trade shows
Susan Silver: taking a look at who's there?
Susan Silver: All right and kind of, and kind of seeing what kind of businesses, what kind of people?
Susan Silver: so Allen Brothers target.
Susan Silver: They are 55 plus male income, over 200,000.
Susan Silver: We? We know this for a fact, because we were able to do quantitative research.
Susan Silver: They had 12,000 people in their database. When I was working with them. We sent the survey, the initial one out to maybe 3,000, and we got an astronomical hit rate. 15% of the people responded, which is insane. So because we really weren't sure if it's the man or the woman in the household ordering the steaks turns out it was the man. But even if we hadn't done quantitative research.
Susan Silver: This piece here I call this, who are your people
Susan Silver: and who are not your people?
Susan Silver: So Allen Brothers didn't have all the money in the world.
Susan Silver: They couldn't advertise to everybody. They couldn't email everybody.
Susan Silver: So what we realized was we had to focus on.
Susan Silver: Excuse me.
Susan Silver: people who already knew that great steak was worth paying more for. And people who generally believed that it's possible to purchase great food online, okay? And like, we did that without any research at all. That's just like what has to be true
Susan Silver: for people to even be open to the Allen Brothers message because we didn't have enough money to kind of. Try to convince people that great steak is worth paying more for, and we didn't have enough money to kind of convince people that. Yes, it's possible to buy, you know, super high end food online and have it be great.
Susan Silver: There's nothing, nothing, nothing nothing more expensive in the world of marketing than trying to change someone's mind or convince them to do something that they don't want to do, or convincing them to spend money on something they don't think they need.
Susan Silver: Okay, like none of you guarantee. None of you woke up this morning and said, Gee, I hope someone tries to convince me to spend money on something I don't want
Susan Silver: big right? Not for me.
Susan Silver: So so remember that. Who are your people and who are not your people, and that can be very helpful without any kind of research at all. We also learn these things about Allen Brothers, but
Susan Silver: most, but what I want to get to, and you have. You'll have a packet with kind of
Susan Silver: all these different tools for me.
Susan Silver: and one of the things I've given you. I've given you one for B, 2 B, and one for B, 2 C. That gives you ideas for different things. You can think about to kind of nail down your target. It's not a question of using all of these. These are just some of the different ways
Susan Silver: that you can start to kind of characterize your target in a more specific way, whether it's their role or function at a company, or geographically, where they are, or maybe number of employees, or revenue or household income.
Susan Silver: All those things. Okay. But everybody should be thinking about what they already believe or know.
Susan Silver: Okay, what does your customer? What is your potential target already, believe, or already know about the category, because you're going to need to work within that to kind of talk to them about what you offer.
Susan Silver: So you've you've got 2 separate sheets in your packet. One is for B, 2 B, and one is for B, 2 C, and that should help you
Susan Silver: think about this a little more.
Susan Silver: For Allen Brothers.
Susan Silver: In the positioning statement itself. We just say affluent men 55 plus. We've got all that other stuff
Susan Silver: whoops. We've got all this other stuff that we know about them.
Susan Silver: But the positioning statement is a shorthand. And then I always do this separate page. That's just about the target.
Susan Silver: Okay? Because targets really critical. That's how you're gonna that's who you're chasing. That's who you're spending money against
Susan Silver: questions.
Susan Silver: More questions. You guys have been awesome. I appreciate all the questions.
Susan Silver: Okay, competitive set. And I'm looking at my notes to see.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: what else I was like leaning from when I was looking at your your one sentence. So competitive sets, what are you? I am a marketing strategy consultant. Okay. My husband's a scientist. My dad was an engineer, Mac, and cheese seems like it'd be really easy.
Susan Silver: but it can be an all family value dinner.
Susan Silver: It can be a kid's meal. It can be a teen after school snack.
Susan Silver: It can be a starch side dish, or it can be college gut fill.
Susan Silver: and depending on kind of the sandbox. You put yourself in. You have different reasons why you're great. You have different competitors. So sometimes this is really easy.
Susan Silver: and sometimes it's a little trickier
Susan Silver: to figure out like where to put yourself. As I mentioned, with the anecdote I talked about before college gut fill.
Susan Silver: you know. Be being a college kind of food
Susan Silver: is. It is a
Susan Silver: truly legit usage for Mac and cheese. But the kids meal stuff
Susan Silver: is is
Susan Silver: exponentially larger.
Susan Silver: exponentially larger. Allen Brothers, they're the online Prime Meat Company.
Susan Silver: What's important for you guys to know is that when this, when we established this competitive set for Allen Brothers, there was only one other online prime meat company in the country.
Susan Silver: Okay? So it doesn't have to be big, really, knowing that you use this in your elevator pitch. This is just I think of a brain like an old fashioned filing cabinet. I want people to be able to pull out the right drawer and pick up the right folder. I want them to know where to put you.
Susan Silver: This is not to be cute. This is not to be coy. This is not to be creative. Someone says, What is your company? You want to answer them, not make them play head games.
Susan Silver: Okay, just tell them that way. They know where to file you, and you can move on with the conversation.
Susan Silver: you know. Sometimes I see. Oh, you should like, you know. Be clever. No, don't be clever. Just tell them
Susan Silver: answer their question.
Susan Silver: point of difference
Susan Silver: is, why are you different or special?
Susan Silver: Okay, it is the big Kahuna.
Susan Silver: This is this is your differentiator. If you'll notice.
Susan Silver: I haven't talked about any differentiators until now. Okay, other people are going to target the same group of people or same person as you
Susan Silver: unmet needs are basic human condition stuff. So it's not like, you're going to have a unique unmet need. And, in fact, if you're interested in learning more about unmet needs.
Susan Silver: Bain. Consulting has done some phenomenal research
Susan Silver: on unmet needs for both b 2 B+B to C. They call it the elements of value. It was in the Harvard Business Review. It's been a few years now, but basically they kind of created a Maslow's hierarchy of needs.
Susan Silver: And they look at kind of like what are what, what is kind of the complete array of unmet needs?
Susan Silver: And sometimes, when I'm working with a tricky client, I'll pull those up and and use them.
Susan Silver: I was working with a company that was I was on the board of a company that was that taught people how to day trade, and then, if they, if they cleared certain hurdles, they, the company, actually gave them company money
Susan Silver: to day trade with.
Susan Silver: and they were the 1st ones into the marketplace, and I was talking to their head of marketing one day.
Susan Silver: and
Susan Silver: they said.
Susan Silver: our competitors are using the same unmet need as we are.
Susan Silver: should we move to a more obscure, unmet need?
Susan Silver: Which was a really interesting question. I was like, no.
Susan Silver: you know, not one bit like, why would you talk to a smaller segment of people
Susan Silver: just because you've got competition
Susan Silver: talking about the most important unmet need in your category like you don't give that up like you want to stay focused. Don't go for a niche unmet need, just because you think it's going to somehow insulate you, because what it's also going to do is limit you tremendously.
Susan Silver: so
Susan Silver: point of difference is your differentiator. And here's where we talk about, why are you different and special. How are you solving that unmet need? Better, stronger, faster.
Susan Silver: You all have done a good job with when I look at your kind of one liners about not being ambiguous a lot of times. I see companies that are being stupid. And I am watching the time, lilliana. So
Susan Silver: trying to. Okay, we've got 15 min left.
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: the most compelling points of difference aren't ambiguous.
Susan Silver: So when people talk about value, it kills me. When people say quality when people say service. But I gotta tell you something. I'm hearing a lot.
Susan Silver: Oh.
Susan Silver: AI enabled.
Susan Silver: Okay.
Susan Silver: yeah, like, like, I, just when I was reading your one sentences. It's like.
Susan Silver: it's not a compelling differentiator. It may be a reason to believe how you do what you do, but AI isn't. Why you're great.
Susan Silver: Okay, AI is not why you're great. Yes, I know it's a buzzword. I know investors are intrigued by AI. But it's not why you're great. It's not why people are going to buy what you're selling.
Susan Silver: Okay,
Susan Silver: So I like it. And I'm going to use a horrible like, I was just at a conference for 2 days, and somebody used the word unpack, which is like a heinous I hate talking about, but but
Susan Silver: I do want to use that here, and I apologize, but like, when my clients tell me that their product is great quality.
Susan Silver: I force them to unpack that.
Susan Silver: because what I think about. All of these kind of generic terms is that they're they're an organizational shorthand.
Susan Silver: Okay, they're
Susan Silver: when somebody in an organization talks about quality of the product to somebody else in the same organization. They're on the same page.
Susan Silver: They're using it as a shorthand for things that they deeply know about the company or the product that make it a quality product.
Susan Silver: I
Susan Silver: want to dig deeper and not talk about quality. I want to understand what are the things that you're doing
Susan Silver: that manifest as quality. Okay? Is it the ingredients you're using? Is it the way that you're building it? Is it? You know, whatever it is? Why is this a high quality product? What are you doing that makes this high quality? Okay, quality is a generic kind of shorthand internal term that you're talking externally to other people who have no idea what you're talking about.
Susan Silver: All right.
Susan Silver: The best points of difference clearly meet the unmet need.
Susan Silver: So
Susan Silver: this is my my friends at kids science lab again, if parents want the time their kids spend without them to be enriching.
Susan Silver: then being able to put them someplace where their kids are becoming better thinkers like, if Mom needs to do grocery shopping, and she can drop her 3 year old off at a science class. She's going to feel a heck of a lot better
Susan Silver: if she feels like
Susan Silver: that. Experience is going to help her child become a better thinker.
Susan Silver: or if someone is spending too much time recruiting and hiring.
Susan Silver: then if your point of difference is never read, an unqualified resume again. That's compelling. Right people hate reading unqualified resumes, except that they get to make the no pile. So.
Susan Silver: with your point of difference, you're not just restating. You're not saying the unmet need again.
Susan Silver: you're you're making it more specifically about what you do
Susan Silver: to kind of that that makes that that meets that unmet need.
Susan Silver: All right. So some examples of points of difference. Fastest, most accurate consumer insights.
Susan Silver: the most comfortable dental experience you can have.
Susan Silver: We ensure that the money you send home to another country is used the way you want it to
Susan Silver: successfully navigate through turbulent market cycles. Everything you love about
Susan Silver: hard seltzer without the alcohol
Susan Silver: identify which trucks in your fleet are about to break down. And why?
Susan Silver: Okay? So for the targets these points of difference were super compelling.
Susan Silver: Even if it's not compelling for you. You're not the target. It was really compelling.
Susan Silver: for kind of the targets in these situations. I know examples can help
Susan Silver: so tools to help you identify
Susan Silver: your point of difference.
Susan Silver: interviewing your customers, which I know you're doing or interviewing. I love that if they're existing customers, why do they love you? Why are they repurchasing from you for those of you who are b 2 b. Why do they choose you like? If you're a b 2 b Company, and you have a 1 on one conversation with a customer.
Susan Silver: maybe in your kickoff meeting
Susan Silver: definitely, definitely ask, why did they decide to work with you and write it down because you're not going to remember. Trust me. You're not going to remember. I'm my parents, oldest child. My mother thought she'd always remember my 1st word. We have no idea what it was because she did not write it down. Okay, so write it down.
Susan Silver: list all the features and benefits of your product, sometimes thinking about like, why, you're different and special. There are so many things that are good about what you're doing. Just just dump them all out.
Susan Silver: What? What is everything
Susan Silver: that is great about what you're offering.
Susan Silver: and then look for things that are kind of what I'll call a little bit higher. Order a little bit more umbrella like that are kind of
Susan Silver: bigger, more compelling.
Susan Silver: What do you invest in as a company? What are you investing in as a company. I know you guys don't have enough money.
Susan Silver: So where are you? And you don't have enough time. Where are you choosing to focus the dollars you do have, and the time you do have.
Susan Silver: So you know, an example would be
Susan Silver: with Allen Brothers
Susan Silver: on the food service side on their restaurant supply.
Susan Silver: They spent a ton of extra money in food safety, like way more than government regulations require.
Susan Silver: Okay, so that was super important to them and a differentiator. They put a lot more resources there. Or you know, training training could be something that you're putting a lot more resources to
Susan Silver: So thinking about. Are there any things right now where you think you're investing way? More time and money than your competitors did when they were the same size that you are
Susan Silver: and that could be a clue. Right? So these are just
Susan Silver: something else. Think backwards. What could go horribly wrong if someone makes a bad purchase decision.
Susan Silver: And what are you doing to make sure that that doesn't happen?
Susan Silver: So these are just some different ways to try to think about what's the most compelling point of difference.
Susan Silver: for Allen Brothers. It was that they delivered to your home the very best steaks you can get anywhere
Susan Silver: which, like mighty vine, sounds like bullshit.
Susan Silver: Okay, that's a big claim. That's where the reasons to believe come in. That's where the credibility that you can honestly claim these things come from. So what evidence do you have that this is actually true? You know it can be quantifiable. It can be a proprietary process. It can be awards, credentials. It can be past experience, different things like that. But it's kind of evidence for what you have
Susan Silver: to like. How can you prove that this is true.
Susan Silver: Some reasons to believe from previous clients. One was that they had certified over 6,000 correctional health care professionals, including a former surgeon General.
Susan Silver: or one of my clients, had impact over 1,000,000,002 d. And 3D. Items. You don't get to 1 billion anything unless you're really good at it, and I know that I know that these are like much bigger things for much longer
Susan Silver: older organizations. But just to give you a sense, for different reasons to believe. You know every can contains 2.5 milligrams of a Thc microdose.
Susan Silver: we provide instant feedback on any mobile device
Susan Silver: easy to use hiring software.
Susan Silver: proprietary contract, attorney vetting and training
Susan Silver: 4.9 star rating on Amazon, where only one in 40 qualified teachers is hired. That's that's kids science lab again.
Susan Silver: You know, these are all different pieces of evidence that supported their their point of difference. And I'm going to show you something that's a little like 201 versus 101,
Susan Silver: but
Susan Silver: reasons to believe
Susan Silver: their number one job is to support the point of difference. So the reason, I say that is, you have lots of good things about you.
Susan Silver: but once you choose your point of difference, some of those good things aren't relevant to support the point of difference. Okay? And that's really important. Like, if you're talking about how great you are at service
Susan Silver: mentioning your money back, guarantee might not be relevant.
Susan Silver: Okay? Cause. So so, depending on what your point of difference is. So, for example.
Susan Silver: with mighty vine.
Susan Silver: this is their. This is their positioning statement.
Susan Silver: Okay. Midwestern women, 30, 55. Their local greenhouse, it grows delicious tomatoes year round.
Susan Silver: Their 1st reason to believe, was supporting delicious.
Susan Silver: The varieties we grow were selected for flavor, not shipability. Their second reason to believe, is all about local state of the art greenhouse. Okay, and 3rd
Susan Silver: year round. Well-known Chicago area chefs like Rick Bayless use our tomatoes year round.
Susan Silver: Okay? So we want to make sure that the reasons to believe are supporting the claim
Susan Silver: in in the positioning statement.
Susan Silver: So Allen Brothers is claiming that they deliver to your home the very best steaks you can get anywhere. Their reasons to believe are one. They're the leading purveyor of Usda graded prime beef in the country, and I want to stop there for a minute and say that we argued for a long time about quantity.
Susan Silver: They wanted to say that they buy like 93% of all Usda graded prime beef in the us problem with that is, it was not true.
Susan Silver: And the reason, I say that is because every year the amount of Usda graded prime beef changes because it depends on the cow.
Susan Silver: so there's no way to legitimately give a number.
Susan Silver: But everybody in the industry would agree that Allen Brothers buys more than anybody else. So we just stuck with that.
Susan Silver: after much vigorous debate.
Susan Silver: 2. Their meat is served in the very best steakhouses in the country, and number 3. Every single piece of meat is hand selected, hand cut and aged by their master butchers, and they really do make a great product. And that's kind of how we bring it all together. This is how we fill in their positioning
Susan Silver: template.
Susan Silver: and that's kind of how I like to write it out.
Susan Silver: And that's what I have for you today.
Susan Silver: I'm happy to answer answer any other questions you will get, I think, a share deck which is a little different. And you will get a packet of tools.
Susan Silver: So does anybody in the 5 min we have left. Are you left time? lilliana? Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Great. You can just email those resources to Chloe and myself, and we'll we'll disseminate them.
Susan Silver: I will definitely do that.
Lilliana Robinson: I asked Susan to leave some time in case anybody had any specific questions from the pre work you were thinking about, or just like your specific business. If you want, we can probably take one question.
Susan Silver: Or I can try to be really quick, and then we can get 2 or 3
Susan Silver: anybody
Susan Silver: I know. It's a lot right. It's a lot to think about. I know you've been thinking about it.
Susan Silver: I want to give you just a different way, a different lens through which to consider how you're talking to the humans that you want to buy your product?
Susan Silver: Knowing yes.
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry, Susan. I didn't mean to interrupt you.
Susan Silver: No go ahead!
Lilliana Robinson: I was just gonna say I wanted to highlight like a lot of the things that you brought were different from things they might have heard before, and I wanted to remind everybody. That's kind of the point, like we bring in a bunch of different experts who have a bunch of different viewpoints, and you're supposed to kind of mesh them together for what will work the best for your business. So I think this was a great viewpoint from just like the pure marketing play perspective which we haven't gotten yet completely different from like a
Lilliana Robinson: the sales people who have come in right? So like the positioning is a little bit different here. So it's all like a melting pot. That's the whole point of techstar. So I really appreciate it, Susan, even how you like, push back on some of the things that they might have learned before, because the diverse perspective is valuable.
Susan Silver: Well, and I think you know, working with techstars for a long time now, and a lot of founders and and one of the hardest things for all of you is that you get a ton of different opinions, really strong opinions.
Susan Silver: And the hardest thing for you to do is decide which opinions you're gonna take to heart
Susan Silver: and deciding like, okay, what does this person know where? What they're telling me? Actually like? Like they're a credible source.
Susan Silver: you know, for what I need right now, cause you're gonna get
Susan Silver: all kinds of random stuff. My favorite is I have a friend who owns a
Susan Silver: I have a friend who runs a family office, his own family office, and I took him to a launch party for one of the founding companies from the new venture, challenger Booth.
Susan Silver: and, long story short, they offered kind of in home makeup and hair pre-vetted
Susan Silver: for women.
Susan Silver: and Matthew said, I think they should offer massage, too.
Susan Silver: And I said, Matthew, this is true, I said, Matthew, what's the problem you see, with their business model
Susan Silver: that you think adding massage will help them solve that problem with their business model.
Susan Silver: And he said, There's no problem. I just think they should have massage.
Susan Silver: Okay. And I and I, I will tell you. I lean on that question a lot. People get super tactical.
Susan Silver: and I want to hear kind of strategically where they're coming from. So I reframe it and say, Help me understand the problem you're seeing
Susan Silver: that you think this will help solve.
Susan Silver: Okay? And that with Matthew there's no problem. I mean, seriously, I was like, seriously.
Susan Silver: So so I think it's really fair to ask everybody that because it also it helps to elevate the discussion beyond a tactical solve to the bigger strategic issue that they might be seeing where they go to solution. Because people do that a lot.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, and you'll get that a lot from mentors and such. Okay, well, we will also share Susan's email, if you guys are working on things, working on updating your landing pages. That's usually the big action item coming out of this workshop. If, while you're working through that, you have some questions. You can always email, Susan. But, Susan, thank you again for your time. Really.
Susan Silver: Thank you guys for the questions like that always makes it more.
George Reed - Noetic: Thank you. Susan.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you guys for engaging that was great and interactive.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright, have a good
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. Have a great weekend, guys. I won't see you again, so have a great rest of your your day.
Susan Silver: Thank you. Bye, everybody.
Fabio Caironi: Bye, bye.